How can we be sure that we will give a word at the right time?
Well, one of the things that will help us is described by the Apostle Paul in the book to the first letter to the Corinthians.
If you turn with me please to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 25.
Notice what Paul says to them,
so that there should be no division in the body,
but its members should have mutual concern for one another.
So notice that comment there,
mutual concern for one another.
If you look at the interlinear,
you'll notice that literally the Greek says there to be anxious over one another.
And it's interesting also for us to note that this Greek word translated here,
a mutual concern,
is the same basic word that's used in the book of Matthew
when recording what Jesus said about not being anxious about anything.
So that seems a little unusual, doesn't it?
Jesus tells us not to be anxious,
and yet Paul here tells us to be anxious for one another.
How does that work?
Well, obviously this word has different meanings or different connotations in different settings.
It's wrong for us to be anxious about material things,
particularly if it shows the lack of faith on our part.
But on the other hand,
it's appropriate that we should be anxious or show concern,
a wholesome concern that motivates us to action when we're dealing with our brothers and sisters.
If you turn over to the book of Philippians,
you'll notice that Paul uses the same Greek word when describing Timothy,
a Philippians chapter 2 and verse 20.
There he says,
Well, I have no one else of a disposition like his
who will genuinely care for your concerns.
So this expression genuinely care,
the care part of it is the same Greek word
about being anxious for others.
And of course, that's the same Greek word that Paul used in Philippians chapter 4, verse 6,
where he said,
do not be anxious over anything.
Now at this point, you're probably thinking,
how does this all work?
The same Greek word, and yet we're told not to be anxious,
and yet at the same time,
we're told to be anxious for one another.
Well, maybe we could illustrate it with the English word jealousy.
Normally, the connotation we would get from the word jealousy is something negative.
But in certain situations or circumstances,
you can have a positive or proper description.
Perhaps let's take a husband or a wife
who finds out that their mate is starting to have a wrong, romantic attachment to someone else.
Well, shouldn't they have a feeling of jealousy if they don't, there's something wrong?
So in that situation, jealousy is positive.
Well, in a similar way,
it's wrong for us to be anxious about material things,
trying to get ahead in the world and so on.
But it's appropriate that we have a wholesome,
positive anxiety or concern for one another.
So what is this positive wholesome concern?
Well, first of all, let's say what it isn't.
First, Peter chapter four and verse 15.
You can talk on that later, but I'm sure you remember.
It says, we should not be a busy body.
So this anxious concern doesn't mean
that we're trying to find out everything about this person.
Then also, first Timothy chapter five and verse 13,
speaks of gossipers, medallers, and other people's affairs.
So if we were to be anxious in that regard,
that would be negative.
It wouldn't be appropriate, wouldn't it?
So how can we show this wholesome concern or anxiety for one another?
Well, over the years, the watchtowers made many comments on this,
but perhaps we could say there are four different things that we could do
that would show this mutual concern.
The first one is to take personal interest in others.
Yes, genuine interest.
Not just asking them how are you and not waiting for an answer,
but trying to see what's happening in their lives
and show concern for them.
The second way is by noting things that they do or say
that we can commend and then encourage them.
So looking for opportunities to encourage one another
is another way that we show that we have this mutual concern.
The third way that was mentioned in our text comments this morning
is that we need to try and see the potential in others for good.
We can think of the example of Barnabas.
Remember, Mark disappointed both Barnabas and Paul
during the first missionary journey.
And yet Barnabas didn't give up on him.
He saw there was some potential there for Mark to be better,
to be used in a more interesting way in the future.
So Barnabas encouraged that quality in Mark.
And of course, we realized what the result was.
Later Mark was very useful, not only to Barnabas,
but also to Paul.
Of course, he had the privilege of writing in the count of Jesus' life.
So what a wonderful privilege he had.
So like Barnabas, we need to look at younger ones, newer ones,
and even everybody to see if we can see potential for improvement
and then encourage them to be able to reach out for further activity.
The fourth point we'd like to mention is the need for us
to show confidence in others.
And the Apostle Paul was a good example of this.
If we take our Bibles and turn to the book of Hebrews,
then you remember when Paul was writing to the Hebrew Christians,
there were many things he had to mention that were negative.
For example, some were drifting away.
They were distracted.
Others had allowed their hearts to harden.
Yet others really were still immature when it came to Christian living.
They were feeding as it were on the milk of the Word.
They couldn't eat properly in a spiritual sense.
So those things could have perhaps played on Paul's mind
and perhaps he could have become quite negative.
But notice in Hebrews chapter 10, and verse 39,
what Paul says to these brothers and sisters.
Hebrews 10, verse 39.
Now we are not the sort who shrink back to destruction,
but the sort who have faith for the preserving of our lives.
Isn't that a positive comment?
A positive comment made to those who perhaps were neglecting
to do certain things that they should have done.
And we notice that too that Paul says now we are not the sort.
So he includes himself along with these other brothers.
How could Paul have such confidence when writing to those
who needed such a lot of counsel?
Well, the watch down made two points.
It said, first of all, Paul tried,
he endeavoured to imitate the viewpoint of Jehovah God.
Jehovah looks at imperfect humans.
He sees their potential.
And he has confidence that if they want to do what's right
with his help, they'll be able to do it.
And the second area that Paul was able to trust in was Holy Spirit.
He realized that with Holy Spirit,
someone can gain the power beyond what is normal
and overcome all sorts of fleshly desires and problems.
So those two reasons then Paul's endeavouring to imitate Jehovah
and also his belief in the power of Holy Spirit helped him
to be confident, to be positive with regard to those brothers and sisters.
So what can we see with regard to us giving a good word at the right time?
Well, we need to have neutral concern for one another.
Not the type of concern that we're busy bodies or medallers
and other people's affairs,
but what with those four points?
First of all, take personal interest in others,
commend and encourage them, see the potential in them for good,
and then express confidence.
If we do that, then we can be sure that in a positive way,
each one of us is showing mutual concern.